Table of Contents

NAME

cntlist - file listing number of times each tagged sense occurs in a
semantic concordance

DESCRIPTION

A cntlist file for a semantic concordance lists the number of times each
semantically tagged sense occurs in the concordance and its sense number in
the WordNet database. Each line in the file corresponds to a sense in the
WordNet database to which at least one semantic tag points. Only senses that
are tagged in a concordance are in the concordance's cntlist file. See
semcor(7WN) for information about semantic concordances and a list of those
included in this release.

A file, cntlist , is provided with each semantic concordance for
informational and statistical purposes only. The files are not used by any
software provided with the WordNet or semantic concordance packages. A
cntlist file is generated by counting the number of sent_num,word_num pairs
in all location_list s for each sense_key in a taglist(5WN) file. The data
is sorted in descending numerical order, and the resulting file ranks the
senses from most to least frequently tagged in the semantic concordance.

WordNet Database cntlist File

In the WordNet database, words are assigned sense numbers based on frequency
of use in the semantic concordances. The cntlist file used by grind(1WN) to
build the WordNet database and assign the sense numbers is a union of the
cntlist files from the various semantic concordances. This combined cntlist
file is provided with the WordNet package and is found in the WNSEARCHDIR
directory.

File Format

Each line in a cntlist file contains information for one sense. The file is
ordered from most to least frequently tagged sense. The fields are separated
by one space, and each line is terminated with a newline character. Senses
having the same tag_cnt value are listed in reverse alphabetical order of
the lemma field of the sense_key .

Each line in cntlist is of the form:

     tag_cnt sense_key sense_number

where tag_cnt is the decimal number of times the sense is tagged in the
corresponding semantic concordance. sense_key is a WordNet sense encoding
and sense_number is a WordNet sense number as described in senseidx(5WN) .

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

WNHOME
     Base directory for WordNet. Unix default is /usr/local/wordnet1.6 , PC
     default is C:\wn16 , Macintosh default is : .
WNSEARCHDIR
     Directory in which the WordNet database has been installed. Unix
     default is WNHOME/dict , PC default is WNHOME\dict , Macintosh default
     is :Database .
SEMCORDIR
     Directory in which the semantic concordance package has been installed.
     Unix default is WNHOME/semcor , PC default is WNHOME\semcor , Macintosh
     default is :Semcor .

FILES

In directory SEMCORDIR/conc on Unix platforms, SEMCORDIR\conc on PC
platforms, and SEMCORDIR:conc on Macintosh platforms:

cntlist
     file listing number of times each tagged sense occurs in semantic
     concordance conc

In directory WNSEARCHDIR :

cntlist
     file of combined semantic concordance cntlist files. Used to assign
     sense numbers in WordNet database

SEE ALSO

grind(1WN) , senseidx(5WN) , taglist(5WN) , semcor(7WN) .

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents

   * NAME
   * DESCRIPTION
        o WordNet Database cntlist File
        o File Format
   * ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
   * FILES
   * SEE ALSO
