Table of Contents

NAME

taglist - file listing location of all tagged senses within a semantic
concordance

DESCRIPTION

A taglist file notes the location of semantic tags within the files of a
single semantic concordance. Each line in the file corresponds to a sense in
the WordNet database to which at least one semantic tag points. Only senses
that are tagged in a concordance are in the concordance's taglist file. See
semcor(7WN) for information about semantic concordances and a list of those
included in this release.

A file, taglist , is provided with each semantic concordance. It is used by
the escort(1WN) browser to locate sentences containing semantic tags that
match the search criteria.

File Format

Each line in a taglist file contains information for one sense. The file is
sorted alphabetically by sense_key . The fields are separated by one space,
and each line is terminated with a newline character.

Each line in taglist is of the form:

     sense_key sense_number location_list [location_list...]

where sense_key is a WordNet sense encoding and sense_number is a WordNet
sense number as described in senseidx(5WN) .

The remaining field(s) indicates the locations in the semantic concordance
files of all uses of the sense.

Location List

Each location_list is of the form:

     filename:sent_num,word_num[;sent_num,word_num...]

where filename is the name of the semantic concordance file, sent_num is the
sentence number in the concordance file, and word_num is the word number in
the sentence. Sentence numbers correspond to the <s snum=sent_num>
attribute/value pair found in filename . Word numbers are sequentially
assigned to the <wf ... > attribute/value pairs found in the sentence,
beginning with 1. Note that <punc ... > attribute/value pairs are not
counted when determining the value of word_num . See cxtfile(5WN) for a
detailed description of the semantic concordance file format.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

WNHOME
     Base directory for WordNet. Unix default is /usr/local/wordnet1.6 , PC
     default is C:\wn16 , Macintosh default is :Database .
SEMCORDIR
     Directory in which the semantic concordance package has been installed.
     Unix default is WNHOME/semcor , PC default is WNHOME\semcor and
     Macintosh default is :Semcor .

FILES

File is in SEMCORDIR/conc on Unix platforms, SEMCORDIR\conc on PC platforms,
and SEMCORDIR:conc on Macintosh platforms.

taglist
     file listing location of all tagged senses in semantic concordance conc

SEE ALSO

escort(1WN) , cntlist(5WN) , cxtfile(5WN) , senseidx(5WN) , semcor(7WN) .

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents

   * NAME
   * DESCRIPTION
        o File Format
        o Location List
   * ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
   * FILES
   * SEE ALSO
