Installation instructions for WordNet 1.6 database package.

1. Manifest

When the WordNet database package is unbundled you should have the
following files and subdirectories in this directory:

	CHANGES		changes to WordNet since version 1.5
	INSTALL		this file
	LICENSE		WordNet copyright and license agreement
	Makefile	Makefile for WordNet 1.6 database package
	README		README file for WordNet system
	README.ml	Information about the user mailing list
	README.tcltk	Information about downloading Tcl/Tk
	bin		precompiled binaries for some Unix platforms
	dict		WordNet 1.6 database files
	include		WordNet source code header files
	lib		precompiled WordNet library for some Unix platforms
	man		WordNet Reference Manual (man pages)
	src		source code for WordNet library and interfaces

2. Makefile 

To prepare WordNet for installation on your systems you must edit the
Makefile.  Following is a brief description of the variables used for
a binary installation.  See the Makefile for more information about
each variable, and additional variables that must be set to compile
the WordNet source code.

	PLATFORM	Computer platform for binary installation.
			The default is "sunos".

	WN_ROOT		Root of WordNet installation directory hierarchy.
			The default is /usr/local/wordnet1.6

	WN_BINDIR	Directory for installation of binaries.
			Default is WN_ROOT/bin.

	WN_DICTDIR	Directory for installation of WordNet database.
			Default is WN_ROOT/dict

	INSTALLCMD	Command to use to install database files.
			Default is "cp".  Setting this to "mv" moves
			the database into the WN_DICTDIR directory
			instead of copying it.  This saves disk space
			by keeping only one copy of the database around.

	INSTALLFLAGS	Defaults to "-p" for use with "INSTALLCMD=cp".
			Set to "" if using "INSTALLCMD=mv".
		
	WN_LIBDIR	Directory for installation of WordNet library
			libwn.a.  Defaults to WN_ROOT/lib

	WN_INCDIR	Directory for installation of WordNet header
			files.  Defaults to WN_ROOT/include.

	WN_MANDIR	Directory for installation of WordNet man pages.
			Default is WN_ROOT/man.

3. Binary Installation

To install the WordNet database, precompiled browsers, library, header
files and documentation, first edit the Makefile as indicated above.
Then type:

	make BinWorld

4. Compiling the WordNet Source Code

This version of the WordNet window-based browser is written in Tcl/Tk.
If you want to compile the browser on your system, you must have the
Tcl 7.6 and Tk 4.2 libraries installed on your system.  If you do not
have these versions of Tcl/Tk, read the file README.tcltk for
information about downloading and installing it.

To compile the WordNet source code, first read the instructions in the
Makefile and edit it accordingly.  The type:

	make SrcWorld

Due to the many different computer platforms and specifics of each
Unix site, it may take some trial and error to get the source code to
compile on your platform.  WordNet is provided precompiled for all the
platforms that we at Princeton have access to.  If you are having
trouble compiling WordNet on some other platform, you should speak to
your local system administrator and NOT send mail to the Cognitive
Science Laboratory.  We do not have the staff or resources to support
this activity.

5. Using WordNet

5.1 Environment Variables

The WordNet database can be accessed with a command line interface,
'wn', or a window-based browser, 'wnb'.  Both are installed in the
WN_BINDIR directory indicated in the Makefile.  If you install these
commands in the default location (/usr/local/wordnet1.6/bin), you must
set your PATH environment variable to contain this path.

The browsers have several ways of finding the WordNet database files.
If neither the WNHOME nor WNSEARCHDIR environment variables are set,
it expects to find the database files in /usr/local/wordnet1.6/dict.
If WNSEARCHDIR is set, it looks in that directory.  If WNHOME is set,
the search code looks in WNHOME/dict.

If you install all of WordNet in a directory tree other than
/usr/local/wordnet1.6, it is best to set WNHOME to that location and
not set WNSEARCHDIR.  If you install the database files in a location
outside of both the default and WNHOME hierarchies (perhaps because
there isn't enough disk space to put everything together), you should
set WNSEARCHDIR to the directory in which the database is installed,
and WNHOME to the root directory for the rest of the package.

The browser 'wnb' uses several resource files.  It expects to find
them in /usr/local/wordnet1.6/lib/wnres.  If WNHOME is set, it looks
in WNHOME/lib/wnres.

If you install the manual pages in a directory that is not already in
your MANPATH, you must add that directory to MANPATH in order for the
'man' command to find the WordNet manual pages.

5.2 Running the WordNet Browsers

The command 'wn' runs the command line interface.  This is usually
used from other applications or shell scripts, or by users who do not
have access to a windowing system. See the manual page 'wn' for
details.

The command 'wnb' runs the window-based browser interface.  See the
manual page 'wnb' for details.

6. Cleaning Up

6.1 Removing the Extra Copy of the Database Files

If you do not set INSTALLCMD to "mv", when WordNet is installed the
database files are copied to WN_DICTDIR.  To save disk space, after
installation (and testing to make sure all is well), you can remove the
database files from the download directory with the command:

	make cleandbfiles

6.2 Uninstalling WordNet

You can remove the various pieces of WordNet from the installation
directories with the command:
	
	make uninstall

Note that this does not attempt to remove directories, and does not
remove the database files.  You must remove the database files "by
hand".  This is done as a precaution, since downloading the database
again, should it be inadvertently removed, is a real pain.

6.3 Saving Disk Space

If disk space is at a premium, and you are not doing research or
development using WordNet, you can remove the files "index.sense" and
"index.gloss" from the database installation directory.  These files
are quite large, and are not used by the WordNet browsers.
