
This is the README file for WordNet 1.6

1. About WordNet

WordNet is an online lexical reference system.  Word forms in WordNet
are represented in their familiar orthography; word meanings are
represented by synonym sets (synset) - lists of synonymous word forms
that are interchangeable in some context.  Two kinds of relations are
recognized: lexical and semantic.  Lexical relations hold between word
forms; semantic relations hold between word meanings.  

To learn more about WordNet, read "Five Papers on WordNet", available
via anonymous FTP and in printed form.  A book, "WordNet: An
Electronic Lexical Database", containing an updated version of "Five
Papers on WordNet" and additional papers by WordNet users, will be
available from MIT Press in Spring of 1998.  

Information about WordNet, an online interface, and the various
WordNet packages are available from our Web site at 
http://www.cogsci.princeton.edu/~wn/

2. Contacting Us

WordNet was developed at Princeton University's Cognitive Science
Laboratory by Psychology Professor George Miller.  Ongoing development
work and WordNet related projects are done by a small group of
researchers, lexicographers, and systems programmers.  Since our
resources are VERY limited, we request that you please confine
correspondence to WordNet topics only.  When reporting a problem,
please be as specific as possible, stating the computer platform you
are using, which interface you are using, and the exact error.  The
more details you can provide, the more likely it is that you will be
an answer.

Please address all e-mail concerning WordNet to wordnet@princeton.edu.

We maintain a database of "registered" WordNet users.  We use this
database to send mail to users when necessary (such as announcing a
new release), and also to help keep track of the number of users we
have, which in turn helps us with important items such as funding.  If
you download WordNet, you are encouraged to send e-mail to the address
above.

In addition to the user database, there is a WordNet user discussion
group mailing list.  Information on joining the user mailing list
is in the file README.ml.

We are willing to establishing a 'contrib' directory.  If you have a
package that you would like to have considered for addition, please
send e-mail to wordnet@princeton.edu.

3. The WordNet Web Site

We maintain a Web site at http://www.cogsci.princeton.edu/~wn/

From this site users can download WordNet, run a Web interface to
WordNet, or download "Five Papers on WordNet".  We also maintain links
to other related projects and online interfaces to WordNet, and an
extensive (but by no mean complete) bibliography.  We will add links
to user applications and papers.  Please send e-mail to the above
address. 

4. WordNet Packages

WordNet Version 1.6 is now available.  See the file CHANGES for
information about changes from version 1.5.  WordNet 1.5 is no longer
available. 

Several different WordNet packages are available.  All are available
from the WordNet FTP site.  The PC and Macintosh packages are also
available on CD-ROM from MIT Press (Spring 1998).  Visit their Web
site at http://mitpress.mit.edu for the MIT Press catalog.

Most users require only the database package.  An explanation of each
package follows.

4.1 Database Package 

The database package is a complete installation for WordNet 1.6 users.
It includes the 1.6 database files, precompiled binaries for the
supported platforms specified below, source code for the WordNet
browsers and library, and documentation.  The other packages are not
included - they must be downloaded and installed separately.

4.2 Semantic Concordance Package

The semantic concordance package contains three sets of semantically
tagged Brown Corpus files, statistical information, and the "escort"
interface precompiled for the Unix and Windows-based PC platforms
listed below.  Documentation describing the format of the semantic
concordance files and on using "escort" is included.  The WordNet 1.6
database is not included and must be downloaded separately.

4.3 Prolog Database Package

The WordNet 1.6 database files are available in a Prolog-readable
format.  Documentation describing the file format is included.  This
package is only downloadable in compressed tar file format, although
once unpackaged it can be used from PC and Macintosh systems since the
files are in ASCII.

4.4 Sense Map Package 

To help users automatically convert 1.5 noun senses to their
corresponding 1.6 senses, we provide noun sense mapping information in
this package.  The sense map package contains files to map polysemous
and monosemous nouns, and documentation that describes the format of
these files.  As with the Prolog database, this package is only
downloadable in compressed tar file format, but the files are also in
ASCII.

5. Supported Platforms

Precompiled binaries for the WordNet browsers are included in the
database package for the following platforms.  A precompiled binary
for "escort" is included in the semantic concordance package for the
Unix and Windows-based PC platforms.  

Note that these are the platforms that the binaries were compiled on.
Most should work on newer versions of the operating system.

	Sun SPARC running SunOS 4.1.3
	Sun SPARC running Solaris 2.5.2
	SGI running IRIX 5.3
	PC(486) running Linux kernel 2.0.27
	PC(Pentium) running Windows/95
	PC(386) running Windows 3.1
	PC(386) running DOS
	PowerMac running MacOS 7.5.1

Source code is included in the database package so users on different
computer platforms can compile the WordNet library and browsers for
their system.

6. Disk Space Requirements

The WordNet database package requires approximately 37MB of disk
space, depending on computer platform.  The sense index (6.1MB) and
gloss index (5.7MB) files are optional, and can be removed to save
space.  The database alone requires 22MB of disk space.

The semantic concordance package requires 43MB of disk space.  The
Prolog package requires 18.6MB of disk space.  The sense map package
requires 6.7MB of disk space.

7. Obtaining WordNet 1.6 Packages via FTP

We prefer that you FTP the WordNet system via anonymous FTP from one
of the following FTP sites:

	In the US: ftp.cogsci.princeton.edu [128.112.144.11]
	In Europe: ftp.ims.uni-stuttgart.de [141.58.127.61]

Anyone who wants to mirror this release on an FTP server should notify
Princeton in advance.

7.1 FTP Packages

In order to facilitate downloading, some of the packages are available
as either a single file or a series of smaller files.  If you download
a package that has been split into smaller files, as indicated by the
suffix ".tar.gz.aX" where "X" is a lower case letter, you must
download all of the individual files in the package.  

7.1.1 WordNet Database Packages

Includes WordNet 1.6 database, interfaces, sense index, gloss index,
interface and library source code, and documentation.
	
	wn16.unix.tar.gz	Unix
	wn16.unix.tar.gz.aX	Unix (split into 512K chunks)
	wn16pc.exe		PC
	wn16pcm.*		PC (split into 512K chunks)
	wn16mac.sea		Macintosh

7.1.2 Semantic Concordance Package

Includes semantic concordance files tagged to WordNet 1.6 database,
"escort" interface, and documentation.

	semcor16.unix.tar.gz	Unix
	semcor16.exe		PC
	semcor16.mac.sea	Macintosh

7.1.3 Prolog Database

Includes WordNet 1.6 database in Prolog-readable format and
documentation.

	prolog16.tar.gz		All Platforms
	prolog16.tar.gz.aX	All Platforms (split into 512K chunks)

7.1.4 Sense Map Package

Includes files mapping of 1.5 noun senses to 1.6 senses and
documentation. 

	snsmap16.tar.gz		All Platforms

7.1.5 "Five Papers on WordNet"

The paper "Five Papers on WordNet" is available in several different
formats:

	5papers.pdf		PDF file
	5papers.ps		Postscript file
	5papers.tar.Z		compress tar file of nroff source

7.1.6 Other Files
	
	README			this file
	CHANGES			changes to WordNet made since version 1.5
	INSTALL.unix		Unix installation instructions
	INSTALL.pc		PC installation instructions
	INSTALL.mac		Macintosh installation instructions
	
7.2 Downloading WordNet via FTP

You can download WordNet directly from the Princeton or Stuttgart FTP
sites or via links on the WordNet Web site.  You should download
whichever package files you need and the appropriate INSTALL file for
your system.

	***** REMEMBER TO FTP IN "binary" (or "macbinary") MODE!!! *****

**************************************************************************
* IF YOU FTP WordNet, PLEASE SEND MAIL TO wordnet@princeton.edu SO WE    *
* CAN UPDATE OUR RECORDS AND KEEP TRACK OF OUR USERS FOR FUTURE MAILINGS *
* AND RELEASES.  EVEN IF YOU ARE A CURRENT USER WHO IS UPGRADING, IT IS  *
* USEFUL TO US TO KNOW THAT YOU HAVE UPGRADED TO 1.6.                    *
**************************************************************************

7.2.1 Princeton FTP Site

	Host:      ftp.cogsci.princeton.edu [128.112.144.11]
	Login:     ftp
	Password:  Your e-mail address
	Directory: pub/wordnet

7.2.2 Stuttgart Mirror FTP Site

	Host:      ftp.ims.uni-stuttgart.de [141.58.127.61]
	Login:     ftp
	Password:  Your e-mail address
	Directory: /pub/WordNet/1.6

Note: 'ls' sometimes doesn't work properly, 'dir' shows everything.

Due to the size of the WordNet distribution, please restrict
downloading to time frames outside office hours Central European Time
(i.e. outside 9 a.m. - 6 p.m.).

All queries regarding the installation of the system, its use and
maintenance should be made to wordnet@princeton.edu only.

7.2.3 Downloading Compressed Tar File Packages

Some of the packages (those with the extension "tar.gz") have been
archived with tar and compressed with 'gzip'.  To install a package
compressed with 'gzip', you need to have 'gzip' (or 'gunzip') on your
system.  If you don't, you can download it from "prep.ai.mit.edu" or
one of the numerous FTP sites that mirror the GNU software.

If you download a package that has been split into smaller files, as
indicated by the suffix ".tar.gz.aX" where "X" is a lower case letter,
you must download all of the individual files in the package.

Note that some of the compressed tar file packages can be used on PC
and Macintosh systems once unbundled, however they must be unpackaged
using the Unix tools 'gunzip' and 'tar'.

7.2.4 Downloading PC Packages

PC packages are distributed as compressed self extracting archives.
Each package is in a single file.  Simply run the downloaded file to
unbundle the archive.

7.2.5 Downloading Macintosh Packages

	***** REMEMBER TO FTP IN "macbinary" MODE!!! *****

Macintosh packages are distributed as self-extracting archives.  Each
package is in a single file.  Simply run the downloaded file to
unbundle the archive.

8. Installation

The INSTALL files listed below contain instructions for unbundling
packages on that platform.  You should FTP the appropriate file for
your platform.

	INSTALL.unix		Unix installation instructions
	INSTALL.pc		PC installation instructions
	INSTALL.mac		Macintosh installation instructions

Each package, when unbundled, contains a file, INSTALL, with
installation instructions for that package.

9. Bugs

Please report all bugs, problems, and WordNet related questions to
wordnet@princeton.edu. 

As bugs are reported they are logged on the FTP and Web sites, along
with the action to take, in the file README.bugs.  You should read
this file and FTP any additional files that are applicable to your
installation.
