.\" $Id$
.tr ~
.TH GLOSSIDX 5WN "30 Sept 1997" "WordNet 1.6" "WordNet\(tm File Formats"
.SH NAME
index.gloss, gloss.idx \- index of words found in WordNet synset glosses
.SH DESCRIPTION
The WordNet gloss index lists all of the content words found in the
synset glosses and identifies the gloss(es) containing the word.  The
file \fBstoplist.pl\fP contains a list of functions words that are
omitted from the gloss index.

This file can be used to help find WordNet synsets that are related
topically.  For example, the gloss index can be used to find synsets
in all syntactic categories related to the monosemous noun and verb
\fBgolf\fP by retrieving all synsets listed in the gloss index after
the strings \fBgolf\fP, \fBgolfclub\fP, \fBgolfer\fP and
\fBgolfers\fP.  

It is important to note, as indicated in the previous example, that in
this file words are simply strings of consecutive characters found in
the glosses, and are not syntactically tagged or lemmatized.  Base
forms and various inflections must be searched for separately.
Strings are all in lower case, however, so gloss terms encountered in
synsets in both upper and lower case are folded into the same
\fIword\fP entry.
.SS File Format
The gloss index file is in alphabetical order, fields are separated by
one space, and each line is terminated with a newline character.
Items in italicized square brackets may not be present.  

Each line is of the form:

.RS
\fIword~~pos\fB,\fIsynset_offset~~[pos\fB,\fIsynset_offset...]\fR
.RE

where \fIword\fP is a lower case string of characters as found in a
synset gloss and \fIpos\fP is an integer indicating the syntactic
category of the synset as follows:

.RS
.nf
\fB1\fP	NOUN
\fB2\fP	VERB
\fB3\fP	ADJECTIVE
\fB4\fP	ADVERB
.fi
.RE

See
.BR wndb (5WN)
for a description of \fIsynset_offset\fP.
.SH NOTES
The gloss index is a very large file (5.7MB), and is not used by the
WordNet searching software.  It can be useful to applications that the
user may wish to write, and is therefore included in the WordNet
package.  If you are not doing research or development that uses this
file, it can be deleted from the \fBWNSEARCHDIR\fP directory in order
to save disk space.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP 20
.B WNHOME
Base directory for WordNet.  Unix default is 
\fB/usr/local/wordnet1.6\fP, PC default is \fBC:\ewn16\fP, Macintosh
default is \fB:\fP.
.TP 20
.B WNSEARCHDIR
Directory in which the WordNet database has been installed.  Unix and
PC default is \fBWNHOME/dict\fP.  Macintosh default is
\fB:Database\fP.
.SH FILES
All files are in directory \fBWNSEARCHDIR\fP:
.TP 20
.B index.gloss
gloss index (Unix and Macintosh)
.TP 20
.B gloss.idx
gloss index (PC)
.TP 20
.B stoplist.pl
Perl associative array listing function words to ignore when parsing
glosses
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR senseidx (5WN),
.BR wndb (5WN).
