.\" $Id$
.tr ~
.TH TAGLIST 5WN "30 September 1997" "WordNet 1.6" "WordNet\(tm File Formats"
.SH NAME
taglist \- file listing location of all tagged senses within a
semantic concordance
.SH DESCRIPTION
A taglist file notes the location of semantic tags within the files of
a single semantic concordance.  Each line in the file corresponds to a
sense in the WordNet database to which at least one semantic tag
points.  Only senses that are tagged in a concordance are in the
concordance's taglist file.  See
.BR semcor (7WN)
for information about semantic concordances and a list of those
included in this release.

A file, \fBtaglist\fP, is provided with each semantic concordance.  It
is used by the 
.BR escort (1WN)
browser to locate sentences containing
semantic tags that match the search criteria. 
.SS File Format
Each line in a taglist file contains information for one sense.  The
file is sorted alphabetically by \fIsense_key\fP.  The fields are
separated by one space, and each line is terminated with a newline
character. 

Each line in \fBtaglist\fP is of the form:

.RS
\fIsense_key~~sense_number~~location_list~~[location_list...]\fR
.RE

where \fIsense_key\fP is a WordNet sense encoding and
\fIsense_number\fP is a WordNet sense number as described in 
.BR senseidx (5WN).

The remaining field(s) indicates the locations in the semantic
concordance files of all uses of the sense.
.SS Location List
Each \fIlocation_list\fP is of the form:

.RS
\fIfilename\fB:\fIsent_num\fB,\fIword_num[\fB;\fIsent_num\fB,\fIword_num...]\fP
.RE

where \fIfilename\fP is the name of the semantic concordance file,
\fIsent_num\fP is the sentence number in the concordance file, and
\fIword_num\fP is the word number in the sentence.  Sentence numbers
correspond to the \fB<s~snum=\fP\fIsent_num\fP\fB>\fP attribute/value
pair found in \fIfilename\fP.  Word numbers are sequentially assigned
to the \fB<wf~~\fP...~~\fB>\fP attribute/value pairs found in the
sentence, beginning with 1.  Note that \fB<punc~~\fP...~~\fB>\fP
attribute/value pairs are not counted when determining the value of
\fIword_num\fP.  See
.BR cxtfile (5WN)
for a detailed description of the semantic concordance file format.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP 20
.B WNHOME
Base directory for WordNet. Unix default is
\fB/usr/local/wordnet1.6\fP, PC default is \fBC:\ewn16\fP, Macintosh
default is \fB:Database\fP.
.TP 20
.B SEMCORDIR
Directory in which the semantic concordance package has been
installed.  Unix default is \fBWNHOME/semcor\fP, PC default is
\fBWNHOME\esemcor\fP and Macintosh default is \fB:Semcor\fP.
.SH FILES
File is in \fBSEMCORDIR/\fIconc\fR on Unix platforms,
\fBSEMCORDIR\e\fIconc\fR on PC platforms, and
\fBSEMCORDIR:\fIconc\fR on Macintosh platforms.
.TP 20
.B taglist
file listing location of all tagged senses in semantic concordance
\fIconc\fP
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR escort (1WN),
.BR cntlist (5WN),
.BR cxtfile (5WN),
.BR senseidx (5WN),
.BR semcor (7WN).
