'\" t
.\" $Id$
.tr ~
.TH WNGROUPS 7WN "30 Sept 1997" "WordNet 1.6" "WordNet\(tm"
.SH NAME
wngroups \- discussion of WordNet search code to group similar senses
.SH DESCRIPTION
Standard dictionaries commonly group related senses of a word with
expressions such as "the act, process, or result of X", or else they
enter the act, process, and result senses as subheads under a single
sense number. Unlike standard dictionaries, the default display for
the WordNet browser is to show senses in order of frequency of use in
the semantically tagged texts described in
.BR semcor (7WN).
The 
.SB RELATIVES
search displays similar senses of a word together.  At the present
time, nouns and some verbs are grouped.
.SS Noun Groups
Three relations are used to group noun senses: cousins, sisters, and
twins.

The cousin groupings exploit the hyponym relation in WordNet.  Many
WordNet nodes whose hyponyms bear a specific relation to each other
have been identified.  For example, the noun \fBcrab\fP refers to an
animal, as well as the edible meat of the animal.  The same relation,
that of "an animal and its edible meat", holds for \fBlobster\fP,
\fBchicken\fP and most other matching strings under the \fIfood\fP and
\fIanimal\fP nodes.

Another class of related senses in the noun hierarchy is called
sisters.  Sisters are matching strings that are both the immediate
hyponyms of the same superordinate.  For example, the noun
\fBflounder\fP can refer to several kinds of \fBflatfish\fP.

The third grouping relation is called twins. These are synsets that
have at least three words in common.  For example, one sense of
\fBduo\fP is a musical group and another is a musical composition.
Both synsets contain \fBduet\fP, \fBduette\fP, and \fBduo\fP.

Transitivity is used to combine groups of overlapping senses into the
largest sense groups possible.
.SS Verb Groups
Some similar senses of verbs have been grouped by the lexicographers.
This grouping is done statically in the lexicographer source files
using the semantic \fIpointer_symbol\fP \fB$\fP.  As with the
noun senses, transitivity is used to combine groups of overlapping
senses into the largest sense groups possible.
.SS Exception List
There are, of course, exceptions to all of the relations. For example,
the noun \fBcoral\fP is in both the animal and food hierarchies, but
does not bear the relation of "an animal and its edible meat".
Candidates for cousin and twin groupings are checked by hand and those
that should not be grouped together are listed in the exception list
file.
.SH NOTES
Coverage of noun cousins is incomplete.  

Coverage of verb groups is incomplete.

Groups of noun senses are determined at run-time \- not statically \-
when the
.SB RELATIVES
search is requested.  Depending on the computer platform and the
number of senses involved, this search may run slowly.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP 20
.B WNHOME
Base directory for WordNet.  Unix default is 
\fB/usr/local/wordnet1.6\fP, PC default is \fBC:\ewn16\fP, Macintosh
default is \fB:\fP.
.TP 20
.B WNSEARCHDIR
Directory in which the WordNet database has been installed.  Unix
default is \fBWNHOME/dict\fP, PC default is \fBWNHOME\edict\fP,
Macintosh default is \fB:Database\fP.
.SH FILES
All files are in directory \fBWNSEARCHDIR\fP:
.TP 20
.B cousin.tops
pairs of noun top nodes (Unix and Macintosh)
.TP 20
.B cousin.tps
pairs of noun top nodes (PC)
.TP 20
.B cousin.exc
senses that should not be grouped
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wn (1WN),
.BR wnb (1WN),
.BR wnsearch (3WN),
.BR wndb (5WN)
.BR semcor (7WN).

