.\" $Id$
.tr ~
.TH WNINTRO 1WN "30 Sept 1997" "WordNet 1.6" "WordNet\(tm User Commands"
.SH NAME
wnintro \- WordNet user commands
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
\fBescort\fP \- search semantic concordances for sentences containing
semantic tags
.LP
\fBwn\fP \- command line interface to WordNet database
.LP
\fBwnb\fP \- window based WordNet browser
.SH DESCRIPTION
This section of the \fIWordNet Reference Manual\fP contains manual
pages that describe commands available with the various WordNet system
packages.

The WordNet interfaces 
.BR wn (1WN)
and
.BR wnb (1WN)
allow the user to search the WordNet database and display the
information textually.  
.BR escort (1WN)
is a window based browser for searching the semantic concordances.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP 20
.B WNHOME
Base directory for WordNet.  Unix default is 
\fB/usr/local/wordnet1.6\fP, PC default is \fBC:\ewn16\fP, Macintosh
default is \fB:\fP.
.TP 20
.B WNSEARCHDIR
Directory in which the WordNet database has been installed.  Unix
default is \fBWNHOME/dict\fP, PC default is \fBWNHOME\edict\fP,
Macintosh default is \fB:Database\fP.
.TP 20
.B WNDBVERSION
Indicates which format the WordNet database files in \fBWNSEARCHDIR\fP
are in.  The default is \fB1.6\fP.  Setting \fBWNDBVERION\fP to
\fB1.5\fP allows the 1.6 commands to work with the 1.5 database files.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wnintro (3WN),
.BR wnintro (5WN),
.BR wnintro (7WN).
.LP
Miller, G. A. (1990), ed.
\fI"WordNet: An On\-Line Lexical Database"\fP.
International Journal of Lexicography, Volume 3, Number 4.  
.LP
Miller, G. A., et al. (1990, 1993). \fI"Five Papers on WordNet"\fP. Cognitive
Science Laboratory Report 43. (Available from
\fBftp://ftp.cogsci.princeton.edu/wordnet/\fP.)
.LP
Fellbaum, C. (1998), ed.
\fI"WordNet: An Electronic Lexical Database"\fP.
MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.
.SH AVAILABILITY
WordNet has a World Wide Web site at
\fBhttp://www.cogsci.princeton.edu/\(apwn/\fP.  From this web site
users can learn about the WordNet project, run several different
interfaces to the WordNet database, and download various WordNet
system packages and \fI"Five Papers on WordNet"\fP.
