.\" $Id$
.tr ~
.TH WNINTRO 5WN "30 Sept 1997" "WordNet 1.6" "WordNet\(tm File Formats"
.SH NAME
wnintro \- introduction to descriptions of WordNet file formats
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
\fBcntlist\fP \- format of \fBcntlist\fP file
.LP
\fBcxtfile\fP \- format of semantically tagged file
.LP
\fBglossidx\fP \- index of words found in synset glosses
.LP
\fBlexnames\fP \- list of lexicographer file names and numbers
.LP
\fBprologdb\fP \- description of Prolog database files
.LP
\fBsenseidx\fP \- format of sense index file
.LP
\fBsensemap\fP \- mapping from senses in WordNet 1.5 to corresponding
1.6 senses
.LP
\fBtaglist\fP \- format of \fBtaglist\fP file
.LP
\fBwndb\fP \- format of WordNet database files 
.LP
\fBwninput\fP \- format of WordNet lexicographer files
.SH DESCRIPTION
This section of the \fIWordNet Reference Manual\fP contains manual pages
that describe the formats of the various files included in different
WordNet 1.6 packages.
.SH NOMENCLATURE
All files are in ASCII.  Fields are generally separated by one space,
unless otherwise noted, and each line is terminated with a newline
character.  In the file format descriptions, terms in \fIitalics\fP
refer to field names.  Characters or strings in \fBboldface\fP
represent an actual character or string as it appears in the file.
Items enclosed in italicized square brackets (\fI[~~]\fP) may not be present.
Since several files contain fields that have the identical meaning,
field names are consistently defined.  For example, several WordNet
files contain one or more \fIsynset_offset\fP fields.  In each case,
the definition of \fIsynset_offset\fP is identical.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wnintro (1WN),
.BR wnintro (3WN),
.BR wnintro (7WN),
.BR wngloss (7WN).
.LP
Miller, G. A. (1990), ed.
\fI"WordNet: An On\-Line Lexical Database"\fP.
International Journal of Lexicography, Volume 3, Number 4.  
.LP
Miller, G. A., et al. (1990, 1993). \fI"Five Papers on WordNet"\fP. Cognitive
Science Laboratory Report 43. (Available from
\fBftp://ftp.cogsci.princeton.edu/wordnet/\fP.)
.LP
Fellbaum, C. (1998), ed.
\fI"WordNet: An Electronic Lexical Database"\fP.
MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.

