'\" t
\" $Id$
.tr ~
.TH WNPKGS 7WN "30 Sept 1997" "WordNet 1.6" "WordNet\(tm"
.SH NAME
wnpkgs \- description of various WordNet system packages
.SH DESCRIPTION
WordNet 1.6 is distributed in several formats and in various packages.
All of the packages are available via anonymous FTP from
\fBftp.cogsci.princeton.edu\fP and from the WordNet World Wide Web
site at \fBhttp://www.cogsci.princeton.edu/\(apwn/\fP.  A CD-ROM
containing the PC and Macintosh packages will be available from MIT
Press in Spring of 1998.  Search their web site at
\fBhttp://mitpress.mit.edu\fP for information on purchasing the
CD-ROM.
.SS Packages Available Via FTP or WWW
The following WordNet packages can be downloaded using a web browser
such as Netscape from \fBftp://ftp.cogsci.princeton.edu/wordnet/\fP, or
from the web site noted above.  Users can also FTP directly from
\fBftp.cogsci.princeton.edu\fP, directory \fBwordnet\fP.

.TS
center box ;
c | c | c | c | c
l | l | l | l | l
lt | l | l | lt | lt.
\fBPackage	Filename	Platform	Size*	Description\fP
_
.na
WordNet 1.6	\fBwn16.unix.tar.gz\fP	Unix	37MB	T{
WordNet 1.6 database, interfaces, sense index, gloss index, interface
and library source code,documentation.
T}
Database	\fBwn16pc.exe\fP	PC	\^	\^
\^	\fBwn16mac.sea\fP	Macintosh	\^	\^
_
Semantic	\fBsemcor16.unix.tar.gz\fP	Unix	43MB	T{
Semantic concordance files tagged to WordNet 1.6 database,
\fBescort\fP(1WN) interface, documentation.
T}
Concordance	\fBsemcor16.exe\fP	PC	\^	\^
\^	\fBsemcor16.mac.sea\fP	Macintosh	\^	\^
_
Prolog Database	\fBprolog16.tar.gz\fP	All	18.6MB	T{
WordNet 1.6 database files in Prolog-readable format, documentation.
T}
_
Sense Map	\fBsnsmap16.tar.gz\fP	All	6.7MB	T{
Mapping of 1.5 noun senses to 1.6 senses, documentation.
T}
.TE

* Size refers to size of installed package.  The size of the installed
database package differs by computer platform.  Ths size listed is for
the largest installation.

The WordNet database and accompanying packages require a large amount
of disk space as noted in the table above.  The database package contains
necessary files and some auxiliary files which may be deleted to save
space.
.bp
Listed in the table below are the sizes of required and optional files.

.TS
center box ;
c | c | c
l | l | l.
\fBFile	Size	Required\fP
_
Required database files	22MB	Yes
cntlist	.9MB	No
Gloss Index (index.gloss)	5.7MB	No
Sense Index (index.sense)	6.1MB	No
.TE

.SS CD-ROM
The WordNet 1.6 CD-ROM contains the WordNet database package for the
PC and Macintosh systems.  The user can choose to install the entire
package, including all the database files, on their system, or to run
WordNet from the CD-ROM.  The other WordNet packages are also included
on the CD-ROM.
.SS Database Package
The database package is a complete installation for WordNet 1.6 users.
It includes the 1.6 database files, precompiled binaries for the
platforms specified below, source code for the WordNet browsers and
library, and documentation.  The other packages are not included \-
they must be downloaded and installed separately.

Note that these are the platforms that the binaries were compiled on.
Most should work on newer versions of the operating system.

.TS
center box ;
c | c
l | l.
\fBHardware	Operating System\fP
_
Sun SPARC	SunOS 4.1.3
Sun SPARC	Solaris 2.5.2
SGI	IRIX 5.3
PC(486)	Linux (kernel 2.0.27)
PC(Pentium)	Windows/95
PC(386)	Windows 3.1
PC(386)	DOS
PowerMac	MacOS 7.5.1
.TE

.SS Semantic Concordance Package
The semantic concordance package contains three sets of semantically
tagged Brown Corpus files, statistical information, and the
.BR escort (1WN)
interface precompiled for the Unix and Windows-based PC platforms
listed above.  Documentation describing the format of the semantic
concordance files and on using 
.BR escort (1WN)
is included.  The
WordNet 1.6 database is not included in this package and must be
downloaded separately.
.SS Prolog Database Package
The WordNet 1.6 database files are available in this package in a
Prolog-readable format.  Documentation describing the file format is
included.  This package is only downloadable in compressed tar file
format, although once unpackaged it can be used from PC and Macintosh
systems since the files are in ASCII.
.SS Sense Map Package
To help users automatically convert 1.5 noun senses to their
corresponding 1.6 senses, we provide noun sense mapping information in
this package.  This package contains files to map polysemous and
monosemous nouns, and documentation that describes the format of these
files.  As with the Prolog database, this package is only downloadable
in compressed tar format, but the files are also in ASCII.
.SH NOTES
The lexicographer files and
.BR grind (1WN)
program are not distributed.

The tools and programs used to create the semantic concordances are
not distributed.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wnintro (1WN),
.BR wnintro (3WN),
.BR wnintro (5WN),
.BR wnintro (7WN).
